Good morning.
Thank you for being here.
My name is John Comiskey.
I'm an engineer in the AppleScript group,
and my job is to help people make
their applications scriptable.
There may be some of you that
support a Carbon application.
The stuff that we're going to
be talking about today applies
equally to both Carbon and Cocoa,
but the Carbon usage requires
a little bit of setup.
So if you are in that situation,
please come and find us in our lab
immediately after this session,
and we'll help you
take care of that part.
After that,
everybody can use Cocoa scripting.
So what we're going to talk about today,
several topics.
Why should your
application be scriptable?
How do you start by
designing a dictionary?
The importance of logging
what your program does.
Then we're going to cover a few topics
in basic scriptability for those of
you that are just getting started.
And for a few of you that I've
seen before and are getting
into more advanced topics,
we're going to cover an
advanced topic in scriptability.
And then at the end,
we're going to talk about the
importance of testing your
application with scriptability
and testing your scriptability.
But first,
we're going to talk about figure skating.
I don't know anything
about figure skating,
which is why I was really surprised
to come in one morning and see this,
that my boss wanted me to revolutionize
print media coverage of international
pairs figure skating competition.
And I had absolutely
no idea how to do that.
So I rubbed my eyes, I shook my head,
and I took another look.
And it was really more like this.
I was supposed to implement a
scriptable object model in Aperture.
Aperture was a new product,
hadn't even been released yet.
It's the first pro app from Apple to come
out with scriptability in first release.
And myself and James Dempsey,
you may have seen James yesterday
performing an original
composition on the guitar.
He and I sat down together and
put scriptability into Aperture.
And this turned out to be very
beneficial for a group of people.
There's a photographer, Vincent Laforet.
He used to work for the New York Times,
and now he works independently.
And he drew the assignment to
go to the Olympics in Turin.
and to cover the pairs figure skating.
He knew that the way
the competition worked,
there's several minutes of skating,
then there's just a brief
interlude between skaters,
and then another pair goes out there.
He had to make a decision
what to do with his time.
It's very difficult for a photographer
to shoot an event and to also
upload his pictures into a computer,
do some editing, do some selecting,
move the best pictures on through the
workflow so that they can be published,
and then get back to the skating.
He knew he wouldn't be able to do that.
He knew he would miss something,
and he didn't want to miss anything.
And it's a good thing that he didn't.
So what he did is he took Aperture,
which is a scriptable product,
and he built some automation around it.
He would take the magnetic
card out of his camera,
put it into his laptop at ringside,
image capture would come up,
and start running an automator workflow.
The automator workflow would
take the pictures off the card,
bring them into Aperture,
create thumbnails for them,
take those thumbnails and
put them in a folder that was
accessible across the network.
When that happened, his editor,
who was over at the Kodak
Pavilion in another part of Turin,
had folder actions on that folder.
So as soon as the pictures arrived,
he was notified that there
was work there for him to do.
He loaded those pictures
into Aperture again,
went through the thumbnails,
and picked out the best shots,
the ones that he knew
they wanted to publish.
Then he'd run another Automator workflow,
which would go back to
the computer at rink side,
grab the full size image of that picture,
pull it over to the Kodak Center,
where he could crop it, edit it,
do whatever fix-ups he needed to do,
and drop it in another folder where
another scriptable application,
a transmit from a third-party
vendor like you guys,
took that photo and sent
it via FTP to New York.
And Vincent captured probably the
moment of the pair skating competition.
Rene Anouilh and Jack Baldwin are
the American skaters,
and although they finished seventh,
they did something that no
one else had ever done before.
They successfully completed a throw
triple axel in international competition.
It's never been done before,
it's never been done since,
and it's probably going
to be the new standard.
If you can't do a throw triple axel,
you're not going to
be a competitive pair.
Vincent got that shot,
got it to his editor, got it to New York.
So with the help of Aperture, Transmit,
Automator, Folder Actions, AppleScript,
the internet, and Nine Time Zones,
he was able to get that picture
published in the morning paper
in New York before it showed up
in the afternoon papers in Turin.
Meanwhile, all the other photographers
were jumping on motor scooters,
running across town
to the Kodak Pavilion,
frantically editing their photos.
Vincent was able to scoop everybody else,
and he was able to do
it by using automation.
So this is actually not
Jack Baldwin and Renee Inouye.
This is Tatiana Tamianina
and Maxim Maranin.
They're the gold medalists from Turin.
So that's a little lesson in
why you want to be scriptable.
You have a decision to make.
Should you spend your time on
scriptability or something else?
I want to convince you to spend
your time on scriptability because
scriptability is something else.
When you make your
application scriptable,
you get to join a club.
It's not a fancy, exclusive club.
Anybody that does the work can get in.
And the club's been
around for a long time.
You've been able to use
AppleScript since System 7.
But since then,
we've done a few other things.
AppleScript Studio came
along a few years ago,
which allowed you to make real
applications out of your AppleScripts,
to put real user interfaces on them,
package them,
and distribute them to your end
users so that they could use
the power of AppleScript in a
nicely packaged application.
More recently,
we came out with Automator,
which is automation for the rest of us.
For people who are not programmers
or who do not feel comfortable
writing scripting languages,
they can use Automator to
drive all the same scriptable
programs that AppleScript does,
but it's a lot easier for them.
All they need to know
is what they want to do,
not exactly how to do it.
And if you were at the
developer technologies event,
you could use Automator to
drive all the same scriptable
programs that AppleScript does,
but it's a lot easier for them.
All they need to know
is what they want to do,
not exactly how to do it.
Excuse me.
If you were at the
Developer Technologies preview yesterday,
you heard about Scripting Bridge.
What's that?
Well, come back at 5 o'clock
to see the Controlling
Scriptable Application session.
Scripting Bridge is a very interesting
piece that completes the puzzle.
We'll allow one Cocoa application to
drive another Cocoa application to use
its objects as if it were their own.
There's more reasons why
you might want to make your
application scriptable as well.
First is loyal customers.
Once your application is in
somebody's automated workflow,
there's very little chance that they
will ever get rid of your application.
They may dabble with your
competitor's product,
they may use it for a few things,
but whenever they do
that automated workflow,
they're going to use your product.
I see Joe Pizzillo is in the back there.
Hi, Joe.
He came to our Making Your App Scriptable
session two years ago,
and he brought his product
Anthracite from Medify,
his company.
And we started working
on making it scriptable.
We met again last year,
and he was very nearly done,
and we polished off a few rough edges.
And now he's back again,
and we're going to talk about
recordability this week.
Joe has found that our story is true.
When people start using your application
in their automated workflows,
they're locked in,
and they never get rid of it.
And he's seen sales go,
as he said last night,
through the roof because of the
scriptability of his application.
You can also let your
customers set the agenda.
You can't possibly anticipate everything
that they're going to want to do,
but you can give them some tools
to construct their own solutions.
An example of that is,
you've certainly heard of OmniOutliner.
It's an excellent outlining program.
Well, there's another product
called Kinkless GTD.
Kinkless GTD is an AppleScript.
It's a very complex and powerful
AppleScript that implements a
system for getting things done,
hence the name GTD.
It's essentially an application
built on top of another application.
The power of object model scriptability
allowed Kinkless GTD to build a whole
new product on top of OmniOutliner.
Now, both OmniOutliner and Kinkless
GTD are benefiting in sales from
this synergy that they've created.
You can create synergy with
other applications from your
own house or from others.
The last thing that we really
think is important is testing.
It's the most immediate
benefit that you get.
As soon as you make your
application scriptable,
it's instantly easier to test.
My testers wouldn't be able to do
what they do without AppleScript.
An example of this is,
I'm sure you're familiar with
the Microsoft Office suite.
Its scripting dictionary is fantastic.
They've covered all the bases.
They've touched every
part of their program.
There's hardly anything that you can do
in Word or Excel or PowerPoint that you
cannot also do through scriptability.
The irony of this is they
did it all for testing.
They weren't even going to
release it to their end users.
They did it all for testing.
Only because your friend and I,
Sal Segoian, saw this in operation
in their labs and said,
"You have to get this to your customers.
You absolutely have to."
That's the reason why the
Microsoft Office suite has such rich,
powerful object model scripting.
They did it for themselves.
They did it for their testers.
Now, it's a big part of their product.
How to get started.
We always encourage people to
start with dictionary design.
It's the route from which
everything else flows.
It tells you how to write your code.
It tells you how the scripters
are going to write their code.
And it's very important to spend
time upfront on dictionary design.
It'll solve lots of problems for you.
You might feel a little trepidation
when you do dictionary design that
your application's too big and that
you've made too many things scriptable.
That's okay.
Draw a nice line around what you
think you can accomplish in the first
release and go ahead and do that.
And then that'll give you
a roadmap for your future.
The importance of designing an entire
dictionary before you start is you
won't paint yourself into any corners.
You won't realize a year from now, oh my,
I should have done this a different way.
It would have been a lot easier.
If you visualize your
entire object model first,
you can avoid some of those problems.
And if you want to do that,
and if you want to do it right,
we've got a couple of things that you
can look at that will help you out.
The scripting interface guidelines,
Chris Neville made sure that these
are very complete and up to date.
They're published as
Tech Note number 2106.
And they guide you in
a certain direction.
They tell you that you should be
providing tools for your end users rather
than trying to solve individual problems.
Your list of to-dos will just keep
growing and growing and growing if
you try to solve individual problems.
But if you give your scripters tools
to solve the problems themselves,
you can spend a lot more of your
time on more productive ends.
So you empower your users.
You don't have to do all the work.
trying to anticipate what they need
you give them the power to solve their
own problems also by following the
guidelines you'll be more consistent
and you'll interoperate better
with other applications because
you'll be speaking the same language
One of the toughest parts
of designing a dictionary is
assigning the four byte codes.
The four byte codes are the
actual medium of exchange,
program to program.
The scripter never sees them.
Once you assign them,
you probably never see them unless
you're doing some debugging.
But it's important that
you pick the right ones.
And we've finally done
something to help you out.
Cheryl Evie put together a web page
with about 3,000 four byte codes
and the matching human terminology.
The rules are simple.
If you use the same human terminology,
use the four byte code
that's already being used.
And vice versa,
if you use the same four byte code,
it should mean the same human term.
And you can look things up there.
The best way to find this is
just go to the developer website,
search for Apple event codes,
and the first thing on the list should
be this page of four byte codes.
I strongly encourage you to consult
that before you release your
scriptability for the first time.
It can save you lots of headaches.
Every time I talk to people about
putting scriptability in their app,
I talk to them about logging.
Cocoa Scripting uses your
application as a set of callbacks.
And whenever AppleScript needs
something from your application,
Cocoa Scripting will route that to
a particular method on a particular
object and ask for that information.
After you get used to it,
it's all very logical and
it all makes perfect sense.
But when you're first getting started,
it's difficult to learn just
exactly what Cocoa Scripting is
going to do and just exactly what
it's going to do next after that.
So I strongly encourage people to put a
logging mechanism into their application
so that they can follow this activity.
In the past, I've shown just a really
simple logging mechanism.
It's a macro.
There's a switch that
turns it on and off.
I've got two of them in case I want to
provide a little bit of extra information
besides just a logging string.
But even just a logging string that says,
I'm here, is probably going to cover
most of what you need.
But with the help of Brook Callahan,
there's been a huge leap
forward in logging technology.
I've now got a much
more complicated macro.
But this macro puts interesting
information into the console log,
like the file name, the line number,
the function that's being executed,
and then any other information that
you tack on to the end of that.
Whether you choose the
simple or the complex,
it doesn't matter.
As long as you have a way of
figuring out where your program's
been and what it's done and how it's
interacting with Cocoa Scripting,
then you'll learn a lot about
how Cocoa Scripting works
and what it expects from you.
This is a sample script
that matches our demo today.
Or no, it doesn't.
It's from System Events.
And all it does is it finds out whether
the script menu is enabled or not.
And you'll see at the bottom that
there's a couple of sample log entries
that come back when you do this.
And in there,
the file name is highlighted.
The line number that
you're executing is noted.
The function that is
being called is there.
And a little bit of extra information,
which is the input to this method,
is also shown.
This is going to be invaluable if
you're trying to figure out what
your program is doing and why it
might not be doing things right.
We want to introduce people who
are new to scriptability to some of
the simple things and how to do the
easy first steps to get started.
So we're going to have a
demo of basic scriptability.
But before I get to that,
I'm going to tell you a little bit about
something we're not going to cover.
Element accessors are very important.
Element accessors allow
Cocoa Scripting to get at the
objects in your application.
In AppleScript, objects are things
inside of other things.
It's a hierarchical
containment relationship.
So in order to get, say,
a document from your application,
and then a paragraph from your document,
and then a word from that paragraph,
you're going to need element accessors.
There's several different kinds.
The most basic one accesses the
entire collection all at once.
So if you said, get every document,
a documents method would be called.
If you said, get every graphic,
a graphics method like this
one up here would be called.
And your job at that time is to return
an array with the entire set of objects.
This might not be the best way
for your application to work.
If you've got a very large
collection of objects,
or if it's difficult to assemble
them all in one place at one time,
you might want to use some
of these other methods.
You can get at an individual
object by its index,
you can get at an individual
object by its name,
and you can get at an individual
object by a unique ID.
If you support a large database,
you might want to use these more
efficient accessors to get at that
stuff so you don't have to constantly
take the entire million record database
and send it back to Cocoa Scripting.
For managing elements,
you're going to need to be
able to create and delete them.
So there's two different ways to
insert objects into your collection.
The first method up here is a method
where the order doesn't matter.
Sometimes things have a natural order.
If you make a new window, for instance,
you're always going to
want to make it in front.
You don't want to make a new window
in the back where nobody can see it.
But if, for instance,
you do want to make a new window in
the back where nobody can see it,
the second method will
allow you to do that.
It'll make the window and it'll insert
it in the collection at a specific index.
Eventually, you're going to need
to get rid of things.
The method here,
remove from graphics at index,
is the method that you'd use to
remove a graphic from the connection.
You'll want to provide both insertion
and deletion accessors for any
objects that you know the users are
going to want to create and delete.
And every good scriptable
object has an object specifier.
In order to get back to that
object a second and a third time,
it needs to be able to
describe itself somehow.
So every scriptable object that
you create should have an object
specifier method on it that returns a
description of how to get to this object.
So, for instance,
Word 5 of Paragraph 3 of Document 1.
That will take you back to the
same place over and over again.
And so your objects need to be able
to identify themselves in this way.
What we are going to talk about in
our little demo today is properties.
Property accessors are methods
of a scriptable object,
and they're pretty simple.
If you're familiar with KVC and KVO,
they follow the same naming pattern.
These are the accessors that
get the name of an object and
can set the name of that object.
If you're using KVC and
KVO for other purposes,
you may already have a lot of
these accessors in your program.
then it's just a matter of defining
your dictionary to get access to them.
So now I'm going to do a short demo
on logging and basic scriptability.
This is the Sketch application,
which is part of our sample
code available on developer.com,
and we've made some modifications to it.
First thing I've done is
I've added this header file,
which has got my logging macro in it,
and you can see I've turned
the master switch on,
so whatever I do,
the logging is going to happen,
and I'll be able to see what's
happening while I'm running my program.
One of the things that people
forget to do is to make
their preferences scriptable.
We have a tendency to think the users
are going to set the preferences
once and then forget about them,
and that's largely true.
But there are other groups of
people that are interested in this.
Your own testers, for instance,
will love you if you make
the preferences scriptable.
They need to set up multiple
machines multiple times every day,
and if there's an automated way to do it,
that's great for them.
Other people that like this are
anyone that administers a large
group of machines at a school or
in a lab and needs to go around
and set the preferences on a dozen
different machines all at once.
They'll like having
scriptable preferences.
So Sketch, as it turns out,
only has two preferences.
One is a checkbox to say whether or not
it should be auto-saving the document,
and the second is an integer
that tells the interval at
which to save the document,
and we're going to make those scriptable.
So you can see here,
I've got my method that gets
the autosave state and tells
me what it's set to right now.
And I've got a second method
to set the autosave state.
So now we've got a read/write property.
Also down here, we've got another pair
of matching accessors,
one to get the autosave interval and
the other to set the autosave interval.
I've been telling people,
including earlier today,
that if you're using KVC and KVO,
you're a jump ahead.
And this illustrates
one of the reasons why.
The only thing that I have to do to
make this work is to talk to the shared
user defaults controller and say,
I want to set this value,
auto-saving delay.
The rest of Sketch is hooked up
with Cocoa Bindings so that the
feedback to the user is automatic
and you don't have to do anything.
So if you're using technologies
like Cocoa Bindings,
making your application
scriptable gets even easier.
So we're going to run this.
I'm going to run an
AppleScript to show how it works.
So these are the sketch preferences.
Like I said, there's only two.
And right now, autosave is off,
and the interval is set to the default,
which is 60 seconds.
Our script is going to change those
values and then change them back
just for purposes of demonstration.
This is a good example of
a round trip test that puts
things back the way it was.
You're going to want to use those
because it simplifies your testing.
So you can see, every time I click run
on the AppleScript,
the state of the preferences changes,
and the visual feedback
to the user is automatic.
All we're doing is talking to the
permanent store of the preferences,
and Cocoa Bindings
takes care of the rest.
We didn't have to write any code to
get this visual feedback to work.
And here's what's
happening with our logging.
We find that the SDF parsing is stricter
in Leopard than it was in Tiger.
Here's an example of
autosave being turned on,
autosave being turned off,
and as you can see,
I repeated that process twice.
And this is all in the log.
So now we know what Cocoa Scripting
did and how our program reacted to it.
Another thing that people
sometimes forget to do is to
make the selection scriptable.
It's important to have a scriptable
selection for a couple of reasons.
Script menu is one of them.
[Transcript missing]
The selection is going to return
an array of all the objects that
are selected at the present time.
But we want more than that.
We want to be able to find out if
an individual graphic is selected,
and this accessor will
allow you to do that.
And most importantly,
we want to actually be
able to select things.
So this final accessor will allow
you to turn selection on and off.
So if we bring Sketch forward and
we put some graphics in the window,
and I'll select two of them and
leave two of them unselected.
So the easiest and the most direct
way of demonstrating this is to
just go ahead and get the selection.
And this would be the first line
of a script menu script to get
the selection from Document 1 and
then do some kind of action on it.
So we can see that it tells us that
Graphic 1 and Graphic 4 in the window
are the ones that are currently selected.
We also want to be able to
get at the property that
tells us whether an individual
Whether an individual
graphic is selected,
and we can do that as well.
And one of the most powerful parts
of this is the ability to use
selection as part of a who's clause.
So if you want to find every blue
rectangle who's selected as true,
you can do something like that.
And again,
your users can use this to construct
automator actions and script menu scripts
that will help them get their work done.
And we've made this all
read-write so that we can--
We've made this all read/write so that
we can actually change the selection.
And I've got a little
We have a little junior animation
here that we'll show you.
We can control the selection
from AppleScript now,
as well as just asking about it.
And that's our demonstration
of simple scriptability.
This is where you should start.
Just make a few things scriptable,
make a few properties of the application,
get the selection,
start with something like this,
and you'll already have something
that'll be useful to your users,
and then you can build on that.
So what you just saw is we showed
you the results of the logging,
how you can tell how Cocoa Scripting
is calling your application,
and we've shown you how to
write accessors that get and
set some simple properties.
There's been a lot of
development in Cocoa Scripting
in the past couple of years,
and there's new capabilities.
One of the things that we've been asking
you to do is to migrate your scriptable
applications from Script Suite and
Script Terminology files to SDEF files.
And the reason you'll want to do
that is the SDF format allows you to
define a much richer dictionary with
a lot more information in it that
will help your scripters use your
application and get at the power of it.
In order to do that,
you're going to have to
register an Apple event handler,
which is something you
never had to do before.
Cocoa Scripting took care
of all of that for you.
And this is the handler that
you're going to want to register.
You need to put this somewhere
very early in your program.
In the application delegate,
application will finish launching is
a good place for it because that means
it'll get executed before the first
event arrives in your application.
And since the first event
might be this very event,
you're going to want to
get that in there early.
The important pieces
of information in here,
this call will register any handler.
The important pieces of information
in here are these two four byte codes,
ASCR and GSDF.
Those are the ones that say
I'm interested in the event
when I am asked to get the SDF.
I want to handle that myself instead
of letting Cocoa Scripting handle it.
When you register this handler,
you also have to define
the handler itself.
This call has to go somewhere
and you have to return the proper
data so that the script editor
can display your dictionary and so
Cocoa Scripting can dispatch your events.
And the prototype for that event
and the prototype for that handler
is going to look like this.
And that handleGetSdef event was one
of the operands to the previous call.
Why would you want to have,
why would you want to
handle the processing of the
SDEF dictionary yourself?
Well, SDEF dictionaries are static.
Each application is allowed one.
And that may not work for you.
You may need to do something
more elaborate than that.
If, for instance,
you have a plugin architecture and you
want those plugins to also be scriptable,
you're going to have to provide
the dictionary yourself.
Cocoa Scripting is not going
to be able to piece your
dictionary together for you.
I've created, by agreement with myself,
a simple plugin architecture that
allows me to add capabilities
to Sketch with external plugins.
And it consists of a few simple rules.
First, it's going to be a Cocoa bundle
like any other Cocoa bundle,
but it's going to have
a different extension.
It's going to have Sketch plugin as its
extension so that I can pick it out from
any other plugins that may be around and
make sure I use it for the right purpose.
And it's got to go in one of
three particular locations.
The user has an application
support directory,
and he can put it in there.
If you are going to provide
these plugins with an installer,
you might want to put them in
the machine location and the
application support directory there
so that all users can get at them.
Or if you want to couple this plugin
tightly with your application for
purposes of drag and drop installing,
you can actually put the plugin
inside the application itself.
And again, by agreement with myself,
I decided that my plugin
architecture would have two calls.
The first plugin did load gets
called at the same time application
will finish launching is called.
And if you have any upfront
initialization that you need to do
before the first event comes in,
this is the place to put it.
If, for instance, you wanted to register
yet another event handler,
you'd do that here.
Eventually, either the script editor or
Cocoa Scripting will call
and ask for your dictionary,
and you need to provide it at that
time so that the dictionary can be
displayed and so the Apple events
can be dispatched properly.
And that call will come in at
a method called SDef paths,
and all that you have to do is pass
back an array of the file paths where
your dictionary definitions are,
and you can have as many as you want.
So I'm going to do another demo of
implementing a dynamic dictionary
and a plug-in architecture.
In this case, I do have to go in and
modify an existing file,
and that's the drawAppDelegate.
And in the
applicationWillFinishLaunching method,
I've made some changes.
[Transcript missing]
And at that same time,
I have also registered
a handler for the event.
So when the script editor or
Cocoa Scripting wants my dictionary,
it will come to me here.
In another file, I have my subroutines,
and this is the load plugin subroutine.
And you can see what is happening
here is just arbitrarily the
first dictionary in the collection
is being selected as the base,
and then I'm looping to add
the other dictionaries to it.
So I'm looping through the plugin paths,
grouping them all together
into one big dictionary,
making that the return
value for the event handler,
and sending it back.
So let's run this.
The plugin that I've chosen to
make is a verb handler that we've
used before to align objects.
Align is a command in
the Sketch menu bar,
but it's not available through scripting.
So what we've done is we've added
the align command as a plugin.
So if we have a number of
graphics in the window,
We've got a number of
graphics in the window.
We can say through scriptability that
we want to align their vertical centers,
which should make them all
line up in a nice neat row.
Then we're going to delay for three
seconds and then we're going to
align the horizontal centers as well.
So when we're done,
all these graphics should be centered,
one right on top of the other.
And there they are.
We can see that our graphics have
all been rearranged so that one
lays right on top of the other.
So that's a brief demonstration
of the kind of thing you can
do with a dynamic dictionary.
Can we have the slides back again?
Thank you.
So that's a demonstration of the kind
of thing that you can do with a dynamic
dictionary and using a dynamic dictionary
to create a plugin architecture.
You can extend an existing application,
add capabilities to it,
and then ship that plugin separately
or as part of the application itself.
If you're interested in
doing these kinds of things,
we can help you out here this week.
We can meet with you in the lab and
make sure that your application can
handle what it is you want to do.
can't stress testing enough.
Testing is the only way you're going
to make sure your scriptability works,
and it's also one of the great
benefits of scriptability.
Your model objects can be
exercised rapidly and repeatedly
through AppleScript in a way
that a human tester can't.
And you want to make sure that
that capability is available
to whoever does the testing.
If you've got professional testers,
we have two very good ones,
John Coelho and Doug Korns
do our testing for us.
They love testing AppleScript because
all of their tests are automated.
And if you have testers and
you want them to love you,
you'll make your application scriptable.
If you don't have testers,
then it's even more important to make
your application scriptable because
you're doing all of this yourself,
and you want to spend more time
making your application better,
not just testing it.
So when you put your tests together,
I want you to be very thorough.
Send your code through every
path that it can possibly take.
When you get elements,
you should get every element and
call that collection accessor
that we talked about before.
Make sure that that works.
But you should also access
all of your elements by name,
by ID,
and by index if they're all applicable
because you want to make sure that those
more efficient accessors get called or,
if you didn't code the
more efficient accessors,
that the built-in support
from Cocoa Scripting is
satisfactory for your person.
So when you get into very large
collections that you need to
have the efficiency accessors.
You're going to want to get at the
elements in various other ways as well.
AppleScript has some names built into
it for the first and last element.
Some element just selects
something randomly.
You want to test all of that
and make sure that that works.
Negative indices work.
They count backwards from
the end of the collection.
You want to test those and
make sure that they work.
And the most important, whose clauses.
Whose clauses are part of the
really great power of AppleScript.
You absolutely want to
make sure that those work.
Put together some simple whose clauses.
Put together some really
complicated whose clauses.
Make sure that you get the
results that you expect.
And when you get these results,
save them.
Keep them somewhere so that the
next time you change your program,
you can run your scripts again,
you can get the results,
and you can make sure
that they haven't changed.
Or, if you really did want
something to change,
that you got the change
you were expecting.
You want to be able to
make and delete elements.
You want to call those insertion
and deletion accessors and make
sure that they work correctly.
You want to make sure that the rest
of the collection functions properly
after an element's been deleted,
that there isn't some kind
of hole in your collection
that doesn't work anymore.
So you're going to want
to make and delete.
[Transcript missing]
When you do your testing,
you want to set up some repeatable tests.
So I suggest that you do a get
set reset operation on all of
your read write properties.
Change the value,
change it back so that the next
time you come and run this test,
you'll get the same results.
You won't constantly be toggling
between two different sets of results.
You want to test edge cases.
You want to make sure that
Values that are right up to the
edge of what works work properly.
So you might want to set the
width of a graphic to zero,
and then what you should see on
the screen is a straight line
instead of an oval or a rectangle.
And you also want to purposely create
error cases in your tests and make
sure that they get handled correctly,
that meaningful error
messages get passed back,
and that the program continues to
function correctly even after an
error has been made by the scripter.
When you add commands to your dictionary,
you're going to want
to test those yourself.
The commands that you add to the
dictionary are your value added.
The standard suite verbs
are very powerful and can do
most of what you need to do,
but your application does at least
one thing that nobody else can do,
and you'll be adding an
AppleScript command to get at that.
You want to test those and make
sure that they work perfectly,
because that's really your signature.
That's your value added.
You want to test these commands
in a couple of different ways.
You want to take the default
values for everything.
Don't provide any of
the optional parameters.
Make sure that something
reasonable happens.
Make new circle.
What's that going to do?
Is it going to make a
circle whose radius is zero?
Is it going to put that
circle at the origin?
If that's the behavior that you want,
make sure that that's the
behavior that you get.
Then you want to come back a
second time and you want to specify
every parameter and make sure that
combinations of parameters work
the way that they're supposed to.
Again, you're going to want to test your
edge cases and your error cases.
Drive things right up to the
limit and make sure they work.
Then take one step over the limit and
make sure that you get a reasonable
response and the program continues
to perform properly after that.
The last thing that you want to do
is add some real-world use cases.
An excellent example is Kinkless GTD.
Whenever Omni changes Outliner,
I'm sure they must test Kinkless
GTD because if they were to break that,
that would be very bad for
two different companies.
So you want to find out what your users
are doing with your scriptability.
Monitor feedback sources.
If you have a chat list or an email list
and people are sending AppleScripts back
and forth and you see a dozen different
AppleScripts that all do the same thing,
make that part of your testing because
your customers are dependent upon it.
Also, it may be a hint that you need
a new feature in your app.
And you want to make
these tests repeatable.
You want to retain your prior results.
You want to be able to compare the
results of one invocation to another.
Make sure that if you got a change,
it was the change that you wanted.
And if you see a change
that you didn't want,
then you've detected a regression
and you can go back in and fix that.
So what we've talked about today,
we've talked a little about why you
want your application to be scriptable.
We've talked about the importance
of doing your dictionary design
upfront and getting that right.
The importance of logging the activity
of your application so you can learn
how Cocoa Scripting works and what
it expects from your application.
A few basic steps in how to
get started in scriptability.
One of the more advanced up-to-date
topics that's available in Leopard
that was not available before.
And the importance of testing your
app thoroughly so that you can detect
regressions and so that you can
support your customer's usage patterns.
The sample code that I was working on
is available at the developer site,
and those other resources,
the scripting interface guidelines
and the page of 4-byte codes are also
available at the developer website.
We've got some labs.
Immediately after this one, we've got,
immediately after this session,
we've got the
Make Your Application Scriptable Lab.
I'll be there.
The whole Automator
AppleScript team will be there,
and we'll help you get started in
making your application scriptable.
I'll be here all day today
and all day tomorrow,
and if anybody needs for me to
come back on Thursday and Friday,
I'll do that too.
I want somebody to leave here at the
end of the week with a scriptable
application that they didn't have
when they came here on Monday.
The AppKit Lab is on Thursday,
and there you'll be able to talk
to the engineer who's responsible
for Cocoa Scripting itself.
He unfortunately can't be here.
He's giving another session right now.
But if you have specific questions
about how Cocoa Scripting works
and why it's expecting certain
things of your application,
you might want to talk
to him on Thursday.
I can help you contact him.
If you have questions
after you leave here today,
you can send messages to Sal Segoian,
our product manager.
You may very well know him already.
He's a great advocate of scriptability
and will help you get your job done,
make your app scriptable.
My boss is Todd Fernandez.
He's the boss of the entire
Automator and AppleScript group,
and he can make sure that you get
the answers that you need and put
you in contact with the right people.
The right people may very well be
other AppleScript implementers,
and they exchange ideas on the
AppleScript implementers mailing list.
Some of you may have already
used that yourselves.
It's a great source of information.
It's a great source of ideas.